1:what is programming?
answer::Programming is the process of converting ideas into instructions 
that computer can understand and execute.
 instructions needs to be specific and sequential if not gets bugs(something unexpected happens)
 and crash(program stops early freezes.

2: in c++ hello world program is syntax 

#include

int main()
{
std::cout<<"Hello, world!";
return 0;
}

3. javascript
document.write('Hello, world!')

4.python
print"Hello, world!"  


5.source code
text editor to write source code .txt
.py for python
 ...> python is an interpreted language
this means we have to interprete into machine code
there are three ways to translate source code into machine code
1.compile it
2.interpret 
3.combination of both
 ...> thats what compilers do high level pgmng lang into 
executable(low level machine code)
 ....> interpreter do they process ur source code each time
runs line by line 


c,c++, objective c known as compiled languages
php,javascript known as interpreted language
java,c#,python as combination language

 programmers use Integrated Development Environments
 its used to provide speed up code development.
IDE is an application that provides special tools to  write
  to debug and compile it.

xcode develop applications for apple, mac, phone, ipad
visual studio code(vc code ) for scripting lang as javascript
andriod studio for andriod applications
 quiz :

1..intellisense..,a unique feature of VS code, allows you to get 
code suggestions while youre typing
2.If you were developing an application 
for an iPhone, which IDE would you use
answer Xcode
3.Which language does not use a hybrid
 compiler/interpreter approach?
answer c++
4.Why doesn't a Python file execute when you double-click it?
Double-clicking does not run the Python Interpreter on the source code.
5.If you were writing your source code in the JavaScript programming language, what file extension would you use to save your file?
answer .js
6.Source code is written in rich text
answer:False
7.How would you write the "Hello, world!" program in Python?
answer print("Hello wolrd!")
8.In programming, a crash is when your program stops early or freezes because something unexpected happened.
answer:TRUE
9.Programming can be defined as: converting ideas into ..instructions.. that a computer can understand.

top 5 languages
java 
python
javascript
c++
c#

easy python and javascript to understand

::::java script is used for web applications and not used for non web applications
::::python is used for web apps, internal company tools, 
scientific analysis and games 
 syntax is the rules of a programming language 
 
+-*/(operators) depends on order of operation
P Parenthesis
E Exponents
MD Multiplication and division(left to right)
AS Addition and subtraction(left to right)

errors are of 3 types
1.syntax languages rules broken
2.runtime unable to execute  ( division by zero is undefined )
3.semantic unexpected output








